bd_CPS/README.md, before:

# bd CPS
## BD Economics Current Population Survey Extract

v0.3, updated: February 27, 2019

Working with Current Population Survey (CPS) public use microdata using jupyter notebooks and python.

Brian Dew, twitter: @bd_econ, email: brianwdew@gmail.com

### Contents
- [Example](#example)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [How to run/ update](#directions)
- [How to add a variable](#directions2)
- [bd CPS variables](#variables)
- [Long-term roadmap](#roadmap)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [Contact me](#contact)
- [List of CPS related links](#links)
- [Project dependencies](#dependencies)

-----

<a name="example"/>

### Example

Input (after running programs on raw data downloaded from Census):

```
import pandas as pd

df = (pd.read_feather('cps2017.ft')
        .query('MONTH == 10 and 25 <= AGE <= 54')
        .groupby('EDUC')
        .PWSSWGT
        .sum())
```

Output:

```
EDUC

ADV     16551343.0
COLL    30948892.0
HS      33313412.0
LTHS    11389192.0
SC      33637956.0

Name: PWSSWGT, dtype: float32
```

The above arbitrary example calculates how many age 25-54 people are in each of five educational categories in October 2017. It shows, for example, that about 16.6 million have advanced degrees.

<a name="overview"/>

### Overview

**UPDATE: v0.3 released.** The bd CPS is a series of jupyter notebooks I wrote to work with monthly Current Population Survey public use microdata. If the notebooks, or any part of them, could be helpful to you, please feel free to use them or modify them in any way. When set up correctly, the notebooks generate annual [feather](https://github.com/wesm/feather) files, for the years from 1989-present, which contain cleaned-up partial extracts of CPS data. The microdata files can be downloaded from the [US Census Bureau's CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html). 

The notebooks include:

1) `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb` reads settings from bd_CPS_details.py and creates a python dictionary with information needed to read the raw CPS microdata files in the next step, and adjust them to be more time consistent and useful. The program requires downloading the CPS data dictionary text files from the FTP page. 

2) `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb` reads the raw monthy CPS microdata files downloaded from Census and converts them into annual feather format files that can be read by python or R. The feather format is particularly fast when the data are mostly integers or categorical, as in this case. Works for years 1994-onward.

3) `bd_CPS_1989-93.ipynb` creates partial extracts for 1989-93. It is a work in progress, but creates many variables that are consistent with those in the 1994-onward extracts.

Settings and other required code are also contained in the python file bd_CPS_details.py. There is additionally a notebook that downloads regional consumer price index data from BLS (used as the price deflator for real wage series), as well as a notebook that benchmarks the bd CPS results against four BLS published estimates. If you want to see examples of how to use bd CPS data, the [benchmarks](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/micro/bd_CPS_benchmark.ipynb) provide several nice examples.

<a name="directions"/>

### How to run/ update

Sometime in the middle of each month, the Census Bureau will release the previous month's CPS public use microdata in a compressed file on the [US CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html). The full set of 1994 onward monthly microdata files are available to download on the FTP page. NBER [hosts](https://www.nber.org/data/cps_basic.html) the 1989 to 1993 files. For the bd CPS program to work, a local folder must contain the relevant uncompressed CPS microdata files. Next, the data dictionary files that correspond to each microdata file should be downloaded and stored in the same folder as the microdata. Separately, to adjust wages for inflation the CPI for each of four US regions should be downloaded using the notebook `bd_CPS_cpi.ipynb` (requires a [free BLS API key](https://data.bls.gov/registrationEngine/)). 

The first step in generating the bd CPS is to run the data dictionary generator, which creates a pickled python dictionary that provides information needed for reading the raw monthly CPS microdata files. This is done by running the notebook called `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb`. To run the bd CPS for 2000, 2001, and 2002, which utilize revised 2000-based weights and revised union data, or for December 2007, which uses revised weights, or for 2015-16, which uses separate data to identify persons with professional certifications, you'll also need to download and unzip the related source files and run `bd_CPS_revisions_reader.ipynb`.

The next step is to run the notebook called `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb`. This will create a feather file called `cpsYYYY.ft` for each year included in the command in the `bd_CPS_reader` notebook. The feather file can be read into pandas as a dataframe, and, as I understand but have not tested, can be read into R and other statistical software programs. The file contains a subset of variables that are most commonly used for research. 

<a name="directions2"/>

### How to add a variable

To include an additional CPS variable in your local version of the bd CPS extract, add the variable name (from the Census data dictionary) to the list of variables names in `VarList` in `bd_CPS_details.py` and re-run `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb` and `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb`.

<a name="variables"/>

### bd CPS variables

The bd CPS contains several variables that are recodes of other CPS variables or combinations of CPS data and outside data. The two most important examples of this are the labor force status (`LFS`) and the real wage variables (`RHRWAGE` and `RWKWAGE`). 

Details on bd CPS variables are as follows:

* `LFS` - Labor force status - Employed, Unemployed, or Not in Labor Force (NILF).
* `COW1` - Class of worker on first job: Federal Government, State Government, Local Government, Private, Self-employed Incorporated, Self-employed Unincorporated, Without Pay. 
* `NILFREASON` - Reason for non-participation in the labor market: Discouraged, Disabled/Ill, Family, Retired, In School, Other (currently available 1994-onward only).
* `RHRWAGE` - Real hourly wage - Available in ORG quartersample, this converts weekly pay to hourly where possible and then adjusts the wage using the not-seasonally-adjusted regional CPI (Northeast, Midwest, South, West). 
* `RWKWAGE` - Real weekly wage - Same as above, except the weekly pay (therefore factoring in hours worked).
* `MINWAGE` - equal to 1 if worker is paid the federal minimum wage or less. 
* `PAIDHRLY` - equal to 1 if paid hourly and 0 if person has earnings but is not paid hourly.
* `INDGRP` - Industry group of first job - Consistent industry groups for first job: Construction and mining (also includes agriculture and the like), Manufacturing, Trade, transportation, and utilties, Finance and business services (also includes Information and the like), Leisure and hospitality, and Public administration. See bd_CPS_reader.ipynb for mapping. 
* `UNEMPTYPE` - type of unemployment: job loser, job leaver, new entrant, or re-entrant. 
* `UNEMPDUR` - duration of unemployment, in weeks. Slight definition change in 1994 revamp.
* `VETERAN` - binary variable equal to 1 if served active duty armed forces.
* `UNION` - equal to 1 if a union member or covered by a union contract.
* `UNIONMEM` - equal to 1 if a union member.
* `CERT` - has a professional certification (available 2015-onward).
* `STATE` - converstion of state FIPS code to two letter state abbreviation.
* `REGION` - Census region (Northeast, South, Midwest, West)
* `CBSA` - center-based statistical area (where defined).
* `CSA` - consolidated statistical area (where defined).
* `EDUC` - Highest level of education obtained - Maps the educational categories to five groups: Less than high school, High school, Some college, Bachelor degree, Advanced degree.
* `WBHAO` - race/ethnic group - Each observation is mapped to one of five racial/ethnic groups: White, Black, Hispanic, Asian, and Other. White is white non-Hispanic only, black is any black non-Hispanic, Asian is any Asian but not black and non-Hispanic, Other is Native American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, and other groups. Hispanic is someone of Hispanic ethncity of any race. 
* `WBHAOM` - race/ethnic group - white, non-Hispanic only, black, non-Hispanic only, Asian or Pacific Islander, non-Hispanic only, Native American, non-Hispanic only, persons of more than one racial group but non-Hispanic, and Hispanic, and race/ethnicity. Available 2003 onward, only.
* `MARRIED` - binary variable equal to 1 if married and otherwise 0.
* `FORBORN` - binary variable equal to 1 if born outside the US and otherwise 0.
* `CTYBIRTH` - country of birth.
* `SCHENR` - binary variable equal to 1 if enrolled in high school, college, or university and otherwise 0. 
* `PTECON` - binary variable equal to 1 if usually part-time for economic reasons and otherwise 0.
* `WORKFT` - equal to one if person worked full time during the reference week (35 hours or more) regardless of whether they usually work full-time.
* `PRNMCHLD` - number of own children under age 18 (available November 1999-onward).
* `DISABILITY` - binary equal to one if person has any of six disabilities (available June 2008 onward).
* `CPSID` - unique household ID (available 1998-onward; OPTIONAL - run the reader, run `bd_CPS_id` and then re-run the reader, to add the `CPSID`).
* `BASICWGT` - weight equal to `PWSSWGT` before 1998 and `PWCMPWGT` after. The weight variables use the 2000-based revised weights for the years 2000-2002 and the December 2007 revised weights.

<a name="roadmap"/>

### Long-term road map 

A crude long-term road map includes the following: refactoring for speed; much expanded graphing capabilities; using external sources (for example O*Net data) to create new variables; enhanced documentation; and more. See [active issues](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/issues) on the project's github repo.

Separately, if someone is willing to fund some server space, I would *really* like to put the actual bd_CPS data online. This would make it possible for people to easily use the fruits of my labor, which, I think, make CPS analysis much easier. Please contact me if you might want to chip in for this (brian.w.dew@gmail.com).

<a name="acknowledgements"/>

### Acknowlegements

Many many thanks to John Schmitt for countless hours of kind and patient guidance. Many thanks to the staff and management of CEPR for giving me the chance to learn about the CPS. Thanks to EPI, and Ben Zipperer in particular, for providing very helpful documentation. Thanks to NBER, FRBATL, FRBKC, IPUMS, Urban Institute, Tom Augspurger, and of course the wonderful staff of BLS and Census, for making analysis of the CPS possible for normal people like me, by providing useful information. 

<a name="contact"/>

### Contact me

I would really appreciate feedback, especially if you spot an error. I also welcome opportunities to work with people on projects that might make use of these notebooks, and would be most grateful for any help in making the project better! Feel free to email me at brian.w.dew@gmail.com.


<a name="links"/>

### List of CPS related links

[BLS regional CPI](https://www.bls.gov/cpi/regional-resources.htm)

[CEPR data CPS extracts](http://ceprdata.org/cps-uniform-data-extracts/)

[FRBATL Labor Market Status Categorization](https://www.frbatlanta.org/chcs/human-capital-currents/2015/0612-measuring-labor-market-status-using-basic-data.aspx)

[FRBKC Psuedocode](https://www.kansascityfed.org/research/kcdc/cps/coreinfo/pseudocode/hrswk)

[US Census Bureau's CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html)

[NBER CPS Basic Data](http://www.nber.org/data/cps_basic.html)

[NBER CPS Supplements](https://www.nber.org/data/current-population-survey-data.html)

Tom Augspurger CPS in Python examples:

[Part 1: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps.html)

[Part 2: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%202%29.html)

[Part 3: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%203%29.html)

[Part 4: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%204%29.html)

------

<a name="dependencies"/>

### Project dependencies

In addition to the files in this repo, to run the bd_CPS notebook, you will need:

- CPS microdata files from Census for 1994-present and from NBER (renamed slightly) for 1989-93;

- Data dictionary files from Census for 1994-present and from NBER for 1989-93;

- Revised data from Census for 2000-based weights, and corrected union data (2000-2003);

- Revised data from Census for revised December 2007 weights;

- Additional data from Census for 2015-16 professional certification variables;

- BLS API code (to retrieve CPI data, free but requires registration);

- Python 3.7 installation (I recommend miniconda);

- pandas 0.24 or later;

- numpy 1.12 or later;

- jupyter;

- feather-format; and

- requests package to access BLS API

Commit message:

updated bd CPS codebook with geographic variable labels, updated COUNTY

bd_CPS/README.md, after:

# bd CPS
## BD Economics Current Population Survey Extract

v0.3, updated: April 14, 2019

Working with Current Population Survey (CPS) public use microdata using jupyter notebooks and python.

Brian Dew, twitter: @bd_econ, email: brianwdew@gmail.com

### Contents
- [Example](#example)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [How to run/ update](#directions)
- [How to add a variable](#directions2)
- [bd CPS variables](#variables)
- [Long-term roadmap](#roadmap)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [Contact me](#contact)
- [List of CPS related links](#links)
- [Project dependencies](#dependencies)

-----

<a name="example"/>

### Example

Input (after running programs on raw data downloaded from Census):

```
import pandas as pd

df = (pd.read_feather('cps2017.ft')
        .query('MONTH == 10 and 25 <= AGE <= 54')
        .groupby('EDUC')
        .PWSSWGT
        .sum())
```

Output:

```
EDUC

ADV     16551343.0
COLL    30948892.0
HS      33313412.0
LTHS    11389192.0
SC      33637956.0

Name: PWSSWGT, dtype: float32
```

The above arbitrary example calculates how many age 25-54 people are in each of five educational categories in October 2017. It shows, for example, that about 16.6 million have advanced degrees.

<a name="overview"/>

### Overview

**UPDATE: v0.3 released.** The bd CPS is a series of jupyter notebooks I wrote to work with monthly Current Population Survey public use microdata. If the notebooks, or any part of them, could be helpful to you, please feel free to use them or modify them in any way. When set up correctly, the notebooks generate annual [feather](https://github.com/wesm/feather) files, for the years from 1989-present, which contain cleaned-up partial extracts of CPS data. The microdata files can be downloaded from the [US Census Bureau's CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html). 

The notebooks include:

1) `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb` reads settings from bd_CPS_details.py and creates a python dictionary with information needed to read the raw CPS microdata files in the next step, and adjust them to be more time consistent and useful. The program requires downloading the CPS data dictionary text files from the FTP page. 

2) `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb` reads the raw monthy CPS microdata files downloaded from Census and converts them into annual feather format files that can be read by python or R. The feather format is particularly fast when the data are mostly integers or categorical, as in this case. Works for years 1994-onward.

3) `bd_CPS_1989-93.ipynb` creates partial extracts for 1989-93. It is a work in progress, but creates many variables that are consistent with those in the 1994-onward extracts.

Settings and other required code are also contained in the python file bd_CPS_details.py. There is additionally a notebook that downloads regional consumer price index data from BLS (used as the price deflator for real wage series), as well as a notebook that benchmarks the bd CPS results against four BLS published estimates. If you want to see examples of how to use bd CPS data, the [benchmarks](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/micro/bd_CPS_benchmark.ipynb) provide several nice examples.

<a name="directions"/>

### How to run/ update

Sometime in the middle of each month, the Census Bureau will release the previous month's CPS public use microdata in a compressed file on the [US CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html). The full set of 1994 onward monthly microdata files are available to download on the FTP page. NBER [hosts](https://www.nber.org/data/cps_basic.html) the 1989 to 1993 files. For the bd CPS program to work, a local folder must contain the relevant uncompressed CPS microdata files. Next, the data dictionary files that correspond to each microdata file should be downloaded and stored in the same folder as the microdata. Separately, to adjust wages for inflation the CPI for each of four US regions should be downloaded using the notebook `bd_CPS_cpi.ipynb` (requires a [free BLS API key](https://data.bls.gov/registrationEngine/)). 

The first step in generating the bd CPS is to run the data dictionary generator, which creates a pickled python dictionary that provides information needed for reading the raw monthly CPS microdata files. This is done by running the notebook called `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb`. To run the bd CPS for 2000, 2001, and 2002, which utilize revised 2000-based weights and revised union data, or for December 2007, which uses revised weights, or for 2015-16, which uses separate data to identify persons with professional certifications, you'll also need to download and unzip the related source files and run `bd_CPS_revisions_reader.ipynb`.

The next step is to run the notebook called `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb`. This will create a feather file called `cpsYYYY.ft` for each year included in the command in the `bd_CPS_reader` notebook. The feather file can be read into pandas as a dataframe, and, as I understand but have not tested, can be read into R and other statistical software programs. The file contains a subset of variables that are most commonly used for research. 

<a name="directions2"/>

### How to add a variable

To include an additional CPS variable in your local version of the bd CPS extract, add the variable name (from the Census data dictionary) to the list of variables names in `VarList` in `bd_CPS_details.py` and re-run `bd_CPS_dd.ipynb` and `bd_CPS_reader.ipynb`.

<a name="variables"/>

### bd CPS variables

The bd CPS contains several variables that are recodes of other CPS variables or combinations of CPS data and outside data. The two most important examples of this are the labor force status (`LFS`) and the real wage variables (`RHRWAGE` and `RWKWAGE`). *NEW* The bd CPS now includes a [codebook](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/bd_CPS/codebook.txt) that shows which variables are available for which dates, and what values the variables include. 

Details on selected bd CPS variables are as follows:

* `LFS` - Labor force status - Employed, Unemployed, or Not in Labor Force (NILF).
* `COW1` - Class of worker on first job: Federal Government, State Government, Local Government, Private, Self-employed Incorporated, Self-employed Unincorporated, Without Pay. 
* `NILFREASON` - Reason for non-participation in the labor market: Discouraged, Disabled/Ill, Family, Retired, In School, Other (currently available 1994-onward only).
* `RHRWAGE` - Real hourly wage - Available in ORG quartersample, this converts weekly pay to hourly where possible and then adjusts the wage using the not-seasonally-adjusted regional CPI (Northeast, Midwest, South, West). 
* `RWKWAGE` - Real weekly wage - Same as above, except the weekly pay (therefore factoring in hours worked).
* `MINWAGE` - equal to 1 if worker is paid the federal minimum wage or less. 
* `PAIDHRLY` - equal to 1 if paid hourly and 0 if person has earnings but is not paid hourly.
* `INDGRP` - Industry group of first job - Consistent industry groups for first job: Construction and mining (also includes agriculture and the like), Manufacturing, Trade, transportation, and utilties, Finance and business services (also includes Information and the like), Leisure and hospitality, and Public administration. See bd_CPS_reader.ipynb for mapping. 
* `UNEMPTYPE` - type of unemployment: job loser, job leaver, new entrant, or re-entrant. 
* `UNEMPDUR` - duration of unemployment, in weeks. Slight definition change in 1994 revamp.
* `VETERAN` - binary variable equal to 1 if served active duty armed forces.
* `UNION` - equal to 1 if a union member or covered by a union contract.
* `UNIONMEM` - equal to 1 if a union member.
* `CERT` - has a professional certification (available 2015-onward).
* `STATE` - converstion of state FIPS code to two letter state abbreviation.
* `REGION` - Census region (Northeast, South, Midwest, West)
* `CBSA` - center-based statistical area (where defined).
* `CSA` - consolidated statistical area (where defined).
* `EDUC` - Highest level of education obtained - Maps the educational categories to five groups: Less than high school, High school, Some college, Bachelor degree, Advanced degree.
* `WBHAO` - race/ethnic group - Each observation is mapped to one of five racial/ethnic groups: White, Black, Hispanic, Asian, and Other. White is white non-Hispanic only, black is any black non-Hispanic, Asian is any Asian but not black and non-Hispanic, Other is Native American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, and other groups. Hispanic is someone of Hispanic ethncity of any race. 
* `WBHAOM` - race/ethnic group - white, non-Hispanic only, black, non-Hispanic only, Asian or Pacific Islander, non-Hispanic only, Native American, non-Hispanic only, persons of more than one racial group but non-Hispanic, and Hispanic, and race/ethnicity. Available 2003 onward, only.
* `MARRIED` - binary variable equal to 1 if married and otherwise 0.
* `FORBORN` - binary variable equal to 1 if born outside the US and otherwise 0.
* `CTYBIRTH` - country of birth.
* `SCHENR` - binary variable equal to 1 if enrolled in high school, college, or university and otherwise 0. 
* `PTECON` - binary variable equal to 1 if usually part-time for economic reasons and otherwise 0.
* `WORKFT` - equal to one if person worked full time during the reference week (35 hours or more) regardless of whether they usually work full-time.
* `PRNMCHLD` - number of own children under age 18 (available November 1999-onward).
* `DISABILITY` - binary equal to one if person has any of six disabilities (available June 2008 onward).
* `CPSID` - unique household ID (available 1998-onward; OPTIONAL - run the reader, run `bd_CPS_id` and then re-run the reader, to add the `CPSID`).
* `BASICWGT` - weight equal to `PWSSWGT` before 1998 and `PWCMPWGT` after. The weight variables use the 2000-based revised weights for the years 2000-2002 and the December 2007 revised weights.

<a name="roadmap"/>

### Long-term road map 

A crude long-term road map includes the following: refactoring for speed; much expanded graphing capabilities; using external sources (for example O*Net data) to create new variables; enhanced documentation; and more. See [active issues](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/issues) on the project's github repo.

Separately, if someone is willing to fund some server space, I would *really* like to put the actual bd_CPS data online. This would make it possible for people to easily use the fruits of my labor, which, I think, make CPS analysis much easier. Please contact me if you might want to chip in for this (brian.w.dew@gmail.com).

<a name="acknowledgements"/>

### Acknowlegements

Many many thanks to John Schmitt for countless hours of kind and patient guidance. Many thanks to the staff and management of CEPR for giving me the chance to learn about the CPS. Thanks to EPI, and Ben Zipperer in particular, for providing very helpful documentation. Thanks to NBER, FRBATL, FRBKC, IPUMS, Urban Institute, Tom Augspurger, and of course the wonderful staff of BLS and Census, for making analysis of the CPS possible for normal people like me, by providing useful information. 

<a name="contact"/>

### Contact me

I would really appreciate feedback, especially if you spot an error. I also welcome opportunities to work with people on projects that might make use of these notebooks, and would be most grateful for any help in making the project better! Feel free to email me at brian.w.dew@gmail.com.


<a name="links"/>

### List of CPS related links

[BLS regional CPI](https://www.bls.gov/cpi/regional-resources.htm)

[CEPR data CPS extracts](http://ceprdata.org/cps-uniform-data-extracts/)

[FRBATL Labor Market Status Categorization](https://www.frbatlanta.org/chcs/human-capital-currents/2015/0612-measuring-labor-market-status-using-basic-data.aspx)

[FRBKC Psuedocode](https://www.kansascityfed.org/research/kcdc/cps/coreinfo/pseudocode/hrswk)

[US Census Bureau's CPS FTP page](https://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html)

[NBER CPS Basic Data](http://www.nber.org/data/cps_basic.html)

[NBER CPS Supplements](https://www.nber.org/data/current-population-survey-data.html)

Tom Augspurger CPS in Python examples:

[Part 1: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps.html)

[Part 2: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%202%29.html)

[Part 3: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%203%29.html)

[Part 4: Using Python to tackle the CPS](http://tomaugspurger.github.io/tackling%20the%20cps%20%28part%204%29.html)

------

<a name="dependencies"/>

### Project dependencies

In addition to the files in this repo, to run the bd_CPS notebook, you will need:

- CPS microdata files from Census for 1994-present and from NBER (renamed slightly) for 1989-93;

- Data dictionary files from Census for 1994-present and from NBER for 1989-93;

- Revised data from Census for 2000-based weights, and corrected union data (2000-2003);

- Revised data from Census for revised December 2007 weights;

- Additional data from Census for 2015-16 professional certification variables;

- BLS API code (to retrieve CPI data, free but requires registration);

- Python 3.7 installation (I recommend miniconda);

- pandas 0.24 or later;

- numpy 1.12 or later;

- jupyter;

- feather-format; and

- requests package to access BLS API
