APIs/README.md, before:

# APIs

## BD Economics examples of using economic data Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)

Updated: March 2, 2019

Contact: Brian Dew, twitter: @bd_econ; email: brian.w.dew@gmail.com

Goal: Retrieve data from several common sources, on demand, without clicking around on their website.

------

### Contents

- [U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BEA.ipynb): Provider of US national accounts statistics.

- [U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS.ipynb): Provider of labor statistics and prices statistics. See also: [tool](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS_tool.ipynb) and [prices example](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS_Prices.ipynb).

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_ACS.ipynb): Example of collected American Community Survey published results.

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_TimeSeries_M3.ipynb): Manufacturers survey (M3) time series example. 

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_Trade.ipynb): International trade by partner example.

- [UN ComTrade](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ComTrade.ipynb): Data on bilateral trade by product.

- [European Central Bank](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ECB.ipynb): Data on government bond yields in selected EU countries.

- [FRED](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/FRED.ipynb): Collected statistics from the Federal Reserve Bank of Saint Louis. 

- [Internaional Labour Organization](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ILO.ipynb): Labor statistics for many countries, included harmonized microdata results.

- [International Monatery Fund](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/IMF.ipynb): Statistics published by the IMF's Statistics Department, including International Financial Statistics (IFS) data.

- [Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/OECD.ipynb): Detailed analysis/harmonization of data from 35 or so wealthy countries.

- [World Bank](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/World_Bank.ipynb): Data on poverty and international development for most countries.

- [Yahoo! Finance](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Yahoo_Finance.ipynb): Daily stock price time series.

Commit message:

Added nbviewer links to README.md

APIs/README.md, after:

# APIs

## BD Economics examples of using economic data Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)

Updated: March 2, 2019

Contact: Brian Dew, twitter: @bd_econ; email: brian.w.dew@gmail.com

Goal: Retrieve data from several common sources, on demand, without clicking around on their website.

------

### Contents

- [U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BEA.ipynb): Provider of US national accounts statistics. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BEA.ipynb)

- [U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS.ipynb): Provider of labor statistics and prices statistics. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS.ipynb). See also: [tool](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS_tool.ipynb) and [prices example](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/BLS_Prices.ipynb).

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_ACS.ipynb): Example of collected American Community Survey published results. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_ACS.ipynb)

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_TimeSeries_M3.ipynb): Manufacturers survey (M3) time series example. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_TimeSeries_M3.ipynb)

- [U.S. Census Bureau](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_Trade.ipynb): International trade by partner example. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Census_Trade.ipynb)

- [UN ComTrade](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ComTrade.ipynb): Data on bilateral trade by product. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ComTrade.ipynb)

- [European Central Bank](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ECB.ipynb): Data on government bond yields in selected EU countries. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ECB.ipynb)

- [FRED](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/FRED.ipynb): Collected statistics from the Federal Reserve Bank of Saint Louis. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/FRED.ipynb)

- [Internaional Labour Organization](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ILO.ipynb): Labor statistics for many countries, included harmonized microdata results. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/ILO.ipynb)

- [International Monatery Fund](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/IMF.ipynb): Statistics published by the IMF's Statistics Department, including International Financial Statistics (IFS) data. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/IMF.ipynb)

- [Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/OECD.ipynb): Detailed analysis/harmonization of data from 35 or so wealthy countries. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/OECD.ipynb)

- [World Bank](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/World_Bank.ipynb): Data on poverty and international development for most countries. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/World_Bank.ipynb)

- [Yahoo! Finance](https://github.com/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Yahoo_Finance.ipynb): Daily stock price time series. [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/bdecon/econ_data/blob/master/APIs/Yahoo_Finance.ipynb)
